Good practices dra cluster admin - nits, highlighting and link outs updates (#51818)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/dra.md

## Monitor and tune components for higher load, especially in high scale environments

Control plane component {{< glossary_tooltip text="`kube-scheduler`"
term_id="kube-scheduler" >}} and the internal ResourceClaim controller
orchestrated by the component {{< glossary_tooltip

> text="`kube-controller-manager`" term_id="kube-controller-manager" >}} do the

Reviewer: no need for the backticks here; people will figure out it's a jargon term

The specific values to tune your cluster to depend on a variety of factors like
number of nodes/pods, rate of pod creation, churn, even in non-DRA environments;
see the [SIG Scalability README on Kubernetes scalability
 thresholds](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-scalability/configs-and-limits/thresholds.md)
for more information. In scale tests performed against a DRA enabled cluster
with 100 nodes, involving 720 long-lived pods (90% saturation) and 80 churn pods
(10% churn, 10 times), with a job creation QPS of 10, `kube-controller-manager`
QPS could be set to as low as 75 and Burst to 150 to meet equivalent metric
targets for non-DRA deployments. At this lower bound, it was observed that the

> client side rate limiter was triggered enough to protect apiserver from

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
client side rate limiter was triggered enough to protect the API server from
```

explosive burst but was high enough that pod startup SLOs were not impacted.
While this is a good starting point, you can get a better idea of how to tune
the different components that have the biggest effect on DRA performance for
your deployment by monitoring the following metrics. For more information on all
the stable metrics in Kubernetes, see the [Kubernetes Metrics
Reference](/docs/reference/generated/metrics/).

### `kube-controller-manager` metrics

The following metrics look closely at the internal ResourceClaim controller
managed by the `kube-controller-manager` component.

> * Workqueue Add Rate: Monitor {{< highlight promql

Author: @lmktfy in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/51722#discussion_r2257921371 and others like it, you had asked about linking inline direct to the relevant metric in the metric reference page, but I couldn't confirm that the reference doc headings in https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics/ supported direct linking via url fragment, plz help me if I am missing that 😇

Author: I added it in [whats next](https://deploy-preview-51818--kubernetes-io-main-staging.netlify.app/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/dra/#what-s-next) section and in the last sentence of the intro on metrics (below), let me know if it should be more visible or just more overall.
<img width="699" height="325" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-07 at 11 21 44 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/38086782-9c37-4536-8644-c119a50f53d9" />

  >}}sum(rate(workqueue_adds_total{name="resource_claim"}[5m])){{< /highlight
  >}} to gauge how quickly items are added to the ResourceClaim controller.
* Workqueue Depth: Track

>   {{< highlight promql >}}sum(workqueue_depth{endpoint="kube-controller-manager",

Reviewer: You possibly want:
```suggestion
  {{< highlight promql "hl_inline=true" >}}sum(workqueue_depth{endpoint="kube-controller-manager",
```
…

Author: THANK YOU 🙏

behavior from the point of view of the internal kubeletplugin with the following
metrics.

* DRA kubeletplugin gRPC NodePrepareResources operation: Observe {{< highlight
  promql >}}histogram_quantile(0.99,
  sum(rate(dra_grpc_operations_duration_seconds_bucket{method_name=~".*NodePrepareResources"}[5m]))
  by (le)){{< /highlight >}} .
* DRA kubeletplugin gRPC NodeUnprepareResources operation: Observe {{< highlight
  promql >}}histogram_quantile(0.99,
  sum(rate(dra_grpc_operations_duration_seconds_bucket{method_name=~".*NodeUnprepareResources"}[5m]))
  by (le)){{< /highlight >}}.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

* [Learn more about

>   DRA](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation)

Reviewer: Even better: include the URI trailing `/`
